>> Scott Moss: Okay, so now what we
need to do is need to make this work.
So if you click create issue or
New Issue, this modal comes up.
You can type in an issue,
a description, and click this button.
And not only do we wanna create an issue,
we want it to show up on
the page immediately.
And there's a lot of ways you can do that.
Some of them are very library specific,
and
I wasn't gonna do it that approach cuz
maybe production you would do that,
but also it's so specific to the library
that I don't think it's worth showing cuz
you can pick whatever library you want and
they're all very different.
So I'm gonna show you how to
do it outside of the library.
I think just knowing the mentality around,
how this is working,
is more useful than walking through
how the framework would do it.
But I could also walk through
the framework example as well,
just to kinda show you
what it would be like.
But it's basically just like Redux.
It's you either do the Redux way with
the framework, in this case, @urql, or
you just refresh the whole query,
which is something React query would do.
So we're gonna go to that approach, which
I think is much simpler because otherwise
you gotta understand normalized caching
and local doing graphical queries on
local data versus doing graphical queries
on remote data is quite complicated.
So I kinda avoided it 'cause I
think it's a little more advanced.
But anyway,
let's go make the create habit.
Before I do that, I'm gonna push
this up so people can have this so.
>> Scott Moss: Say, stash,
gIt checkouts clients.
>> Scott Moss: Okay, so
this will be on client /2,
if you want to kinda see what I was doing,
if kick off from there.
I'm just gonna go ahead and make a new
branch right now, before I forget.
>> Scott Moss: All right, so
now we're on client/3, and
here we're gonna allow this onCreate
to actually work, so let's go do that.
So I'm gonna go to our notes just to make
sure I'm staying on track with that.
>> Scott Moss: So for create issue,
we already did the mutation before.
So it's mostly what we did before
with the create user except we
have a create issue mutation.
We know how the inputs work,
we know how to do all of that.
So we mostly just gonna do that and
then tie that back into the same page,
we were just on for
the onCreate method and
everything should just be
hooked up already for you.
We just got to figure out
where did those things tie in?
And then more importantly,
the last part is, we created it, but
we'll have to refresh
the page to see the new data.
So how do we get the data on the page
without having to refresh the page,
which it would be kinda bad.
So let's do that.
So like always,
I'm gonna go to my Apollo server,
I'm gonna clear this out,
>> Scott Moss: And
I'm gonna use the mutation.
I'm gonna click +,
I'm gonna click createIssue,
let me see, I need the id for sure.
I need the name, I need the status,
and I need the content.
I'm gonna go ahead and get all of those.
Probably don't even really
need the content, actually,
just those three are probably fine.
And as far as the arguments, I'm gonna
click here and I'm gonna say yes.
I want to be able to pass in content and
name those are required.
And then you don't have to pass
in the status cuz it defaults.
It defaults to one so
you don't have to do it so that's fine.
So we're good there,
get rid of this, there we go.
>> Scott Moss: And I'm just gonna
copy this, but first I'm gonna rename
this from mutation to CreateIssueMutation,
like this.
So I'm gonna copy that.
>> Scott Moss: And
then now I'm gonna go into our gql file,
gonna make a new file here.
And I'm gonna call it
createIssueMutation.ts.
And we're gonna do the same thing we've
been doing from @urql/next, GraphQL.
>> Scott Moss: export
const CreateIssueMutation
= gql`, and paste that.
>> Scott Moss: All right, so there we go,
got my mutation ready to go.
All I have to do is import it and
use it inside of our page,
which is gonna be an app
dashboard page.tsx.
So let's go back there,
we're gonna import it here.
>> Scott Moss: @gql, I'll just say
CreateIssueMutation there we go.
So we got that,
we already have useMutation at the top.
If you don't import that from @urql/next,
get the useMutation,
>> Scott Moss: Underneath I'm just gonna
say, = useMutation(CreateIssuedMutation)
here for the mutation.
We're probably not gonna use these
results, so I'm gonna give it a name.
createResults, and then this is
the actual creatIssue function.
>> Scott Moss: Okay, so,
a couple things we wanna do here.
I think I have the notes for exactly what,
I'll make sure I follow that.
First we wanna make the call
to create the issue,
I wanna make sure we pass in the
issueName, that's here bound to this date,
passing the IssueDescription
that's bound to this date.
And then if it does not error out,
we then want to close the modal and
every set those dates.
And then eventually we will need to
figure out how to refresh everything, so
well let's do that.
So I'll say data.
All right, what about color here?
Result, I'll just call it result,
otherwise it's data.data.
That's gotta = createIssue.
We have that, we know we can pass in
a name, which is gonna be issueName.
We can pass in the content,
which gonna be issueDescription like that.
And then I can say if (result.data),
I can say close the modal,
which is passed in here and
then just reset the states.
setIssueName(` `) and
setIssueDescription(` `).
>> Scott Moss: Okay,
everything else should be hooked up.
[COUGH] Let me double check, yeah,
onCreate is here, looks good.
Let's give it a try, so
if I go back to the browser.
>> Scott Moss: Refresh this,
if I click new issue,
if I click New Issue give it a issue,
I don't know,
clean my hoodies that I
got Cheetos all over.
[LAUGH]
>> Scott Moss: I need to wash them,
I can click Create Issue,
and we'll see what happens.
Either it error or
nothing happened, let's see.
Let's try this again, I don't see
an error, so I'm gonna try this again.
Create Issue, here we go.
Okay, so it says, variable input.
So I forgot to call
the actual variable input.
It's very strict, right?
So I just put an object in here like this,
right?
But really what it wants, it wants this.
It wants input, and
then it wants an object.
>> Scott Moss: But you see,
it still gave me a 200, right?
So you have to look at the error messages,
right?
And in a realistic app, what I would
have done, let's just go back,
let's put this back here.
What you would do is you would do this,
right?
You say, if (result.error) and
then I can see that here.
So I would say console.log, or
console.error (result.error).
So let's do that, run that back.
Go to the Console, and
then here you go, I have it right here.
Variable input of required type
CreateissueInput was not provided.
It's pretty damn specific
about what you messed up on.
You can't miss it, it's there.
So that's what I like about it.
I know you guys didn't write the server,
but I wrote the server.
I didn't have to write that code, that's
given to me for free, that error message,
that type checking is done for
free because that's what the schema says.
So, I didn't show you guys the schema cuz
you don't really need to see the schema.
And when you're working
on client side only,
you can't do anything with the schema,
but you can explore the schema here.
Obviously, this is what this is for,
but if you click here,
it will actually show you the entire
schema for your API, right?
So here's the actual schema.
Here's the fields on the queries,
I can get all the issues,
I can get this current user if I click
on mutation you see I have five of them.
I can create an issue that
returns the issue type and
create a user returns a user type,
I could delete an issue returns an ID,
edit, signin all these everything so
here's the schema.
So you can take a look at this to get
an idea, what it is you need to do.
So for me, I just did the mutation on or
I did the query on issues.
I could clearly see that,
this thing has an issue input.
So I can see here that,
this is what it's requiring.
So I don't have to guess, there isn't
a lot of guessing here, is go here, and
you can kinda figure it out.
If you wanna see what it actually looks
like in code, this is what it looks like.
So on the server, if you take the server
side cores, you'll be making this.
This is the actual GraphQL schema and
the syntax that it uses to
actually create the schema.
What is it called?
There's the SDL query.
I don't know there's a word for it,
acronym for it, for the GraphQL schema.
I just call it the GraphQL schema, but
I think it's called the SDL
schema definition language.
I'm pretty sure that's what it's called,
but nobody calls it that.
It's just a GraphQL schema.
So, yeah, you can look at that.
But if you wanted to see it in a code,
it's here, you can go to schema.ts,
go to the one that's on GraphQL,
not the one on DB, and it's here.
You can see it, it's a GraphQL schema.
>> Scott Moss: That way
you can kind of see.
So if I go and look at the issues
query again, you can see query issues,
it takes input.
It needs an object with the input
field and its type is this.
I didn't give it an input field,
I just gave it this type.
So it has to be an input field,
that's what it's saying, right?
If you go back and read that error
>> Scott Moss: It says variable $input of
required type, CreateIssueInput, was not
I'm sorry, I'm looking at the wrong query.
It needs to be created, here we go.
So this input is, it's got an exclamation,
so it's not null.
You have to pass it, if you don't
pass this input it won't execute.
It won't even run your code on
the back end, this has to pass.
So what it's saying is,
$input of required type
CreateIssueInput was not provided or
$input is this.
It's saying you didn't provide this and
it's required.
>> Scott Moss: So
that's what it's saying, but
all of that is just show you how you
can look at the schema through Apollo.
Even if it's API that you didn't make,
you obviously you can't go and
look at the schema like I just did here.
But if you use Apollo Studio or
anything like this,
it'll do introspection on the schema and
it'll pull it down,
it basically will create documentation for
you.
This what this is, right?
It's creating documentation for
you off the GraphQL schema.
So you can see you can put any GraphQL
url here, as long as it's public or
if you have any headers,
you have to pass it get access to it,
as long as that API has
introspection enabled.
It will send down all of its types and
objects and everything like that, so
the tooling can support it and create it.
So this gets into something really cool
which is called GraphQL Federation,
where GraphQL API's can talk to each other
and understand each other by introspecting
to each other, and stitch schemas
together to create one federated schema.
Backend, there's a whole other world.
Frontend is just, all right,
query language, that's cool.
Backend, it's a graph,
it's literally a graph.
So it gets kind of crazy, but
sorry that's that's my little tangent.
Let's get back to it, so fix this issue
by just putting this in another object,
objects called inputs and doing that,
so hopefully that fixes that.
And let's try this again, so now I'm gonna
go here, I'm gonna click Create Issue.
This time it didn't create the issue, but
as you can see, we wouldn't know that,
it doesn't show up on the page.
But if I hit refresh, there it is.
It does show up because we
already wrote the query for this,
way we're gonna run the query that
does this and it the query runs when
the page renders and refresh
triggers a render, so it showed up.